Git commands:
---------------
What you will learn here about git commands:

   git clone
   git checkout
   git add
   git status
   git commit
   git push
   git pull
   git merge
   git commands
   git clone

git clone command clones or copy the target repository to the local repository.

Syntax of git clone
git clone < Repository URL>
git checkout
git checkout use to switch from one branch to another branch.

Syntax of git checkout
git checkout <Branch Name>
git add
git add command adds modified file or changed file to staging area.

Syntax to add all modified file
git add .
Syntax to add single modified file
git add <File Name with full path>

 
git status
git status command shows what are the modified files are in staging and non staging area after last commit

Syntax of git status
git status
git commit
git commit command adds changed or modified files from staging area to local repository

Syntax of git commit
git commit -m "add commit message here"
git push
git push command pushes changes from local repository to remote repository

Syntax of git push
git push
git pull
git pull command pulls new changes added to remote repository to local repository

Syntax of git pull
git pull
git merge
git merge command merge new changes from local repository to current working directory

Syntax of git merge
git merge <commit id>




Frequently Ask Questions
1)What is git command to show all branches?
Answer: git branch -a

2)What is git command to show remote branches?
Answer: git branch -r

3)How to display only the names of the changed files?
Answer: git diff –name-only

4)what is the Git command to view all the changes since the last commit?
Answer: git status

5)What is the command to store uncommited temporarily?
Answer: git stash

6)What is the command to delete a branch in your remote repository?
Answer: git push origin -d <Branch Name> or git push –delete <Branch Name>

7)What is the command to delete a branch in your local repository?
Answer: git branch -d <Branch Name>


 
8)If you want to view the changes since last commit in specific file, which command should you use?
Answer: git diff <File Name>

9)How can you temporarily switch to a different commit?
git checkout <Commit SHA>

10)What is the git command to create a branch?
Answer: git branch <Branch Name>

11)What is the git command to create new and switch that branch
Answer: git checkout -b <Branch Name>

12)What does the command Git reset –soft HEAD^ perform?
Answer: Moves commit to one before current head

13)How to delete unpublished Git commits and get rid of them permanently?
Answer: git reset –hard

14)What is the command to reset your index as well as the working directory to the state of your last commit?
Answer: git reset

